# Bash (Born in Shell)
### https://missing.csail.mit.edu/2020/course-shell/
* Most popullar shell there is.
* Use the shell to write commands, and commands can be relatively straightforward things, usually it'll be something like executing programs with arguments. One program we can execute is date:   
```$ date```
* You can also execute a program with arguments, this is one way to modify the behavior of the program, so for example there is a program called ```echo```, and echo just prints out the arguments that you give it, and arguments are just white spaces separated things that follow the program name. So we can say ```$ echo hello```, and it will print hello back. You can also quote things up, so you can use more words on arguments ```$ echo "Hello world"```.
* One thing you might ask is how does the shell know what these programs are? When I type ```$ date``` or when I type ```$ echo```, how does it know what these programs are supposed to do? And the answer to this is your computer has a bunch of built-in programs that comes with the machine, it chips with a bunch of terminal centric applications, **and these applications are stored on your file system, and your shell has a way to determine where a program is located. Basically it has a way to search for programs, and it does this though something called an *environment variable***. An **environment variable** is a variable like you might be used to for programming languages, it turns out that **the shell and the bash in particular is really a programming language**, the prompt that you're given is not just able to run a program with arguments, you can also do things like *while loops, for looops, conditionals*, you can define functions, define variables, and all of these things you can do in the shell. We will cover a lot of that on the next lecture on shell scripting.
* For now, lets look at this particular environment variable. Environment variables are things that are set whenever you start you shell, they're not things you have to set every time you run you shell, there are a bunch of these that set things like **where is your home directory**, **what is your username**, and there's also one tha's critical for this particular purpose, **which is the path variable**, so if I echo out ```$ echo $PATH```, **this is going to show me all of the paths on my machine that shell will search for programs**, for example:
    ```
    /home/w/.local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/snap/bin
    ```
*  This is a list, that is colon separated, and in bash, whenever you type the name of a program, it is going to search through this list of paths on your machine and it's going to look in each directory for a program or a file whose name matches the command your tried to run. So, in this case, when we try to run ```$ date ``` or ```$ echo```, it's goona walk through these one at a time until it finds one that contains the program called date or echo and then it's gonna run it. If we want to know which one is actually run, there's a called ```which```, which lets us do that: ```which mongo``` and it returns ```/usr/bin/mongo```.
* Lets talk about what **paths** are. **Paths are a way to name the location of a file on your computer**. **Absolute Paths are paths that fully determine the location of a file**. There are also things know as relative paths. **Relative paths are relative to where you currently are**.
* To find out where you are, press ```$ pwd```, which stands for **print working directory**. To change directory, use ```$ cd```.
* There are also a couple of special directories, there is dot **.**, and dotdot **..**, dot means the current directory, and dotdot means the parent directory.
* If you want to write a program that runs a program like echo or date, and you want it to be able to run from anywhere, you eighter want to just give the name of the program, like date or echo and let the shell use the path to figure out where it is, **or you want to give its absolute path**, cause if you give a relative path, then if I ran it in my home directory, and you run it in some other directory, it might work for me and not for you.* We can give cd a really handy argument, which is dash: ```$ cd -```, this cd to the directory you were previously in.
* Unless a directory is given as its first argument, ```ls``` will print the contents of the current directory. Most commands accept flags and options (flags with values) that start with ```-``` to modify their behavior. Usually, running a program with the ```-h``` or ```--help``` flag (```/?``` on Windows) will print some help text that tells you what flags and options are available. For example, ```ls --help``` tells us a bunch of information about the flags that can be used. There is a special one, that is ```$ ls -l```, which means **use a long listing format**, this gives us a bunch more informatio about each file or directory present:   
    ```
    missing:~$ ls -l /home
    drwxr-xr-x 1 ownr  grp  4096 Jun 15  2019 _dir
    ```
* First, the ```d``` at the beggining of the line tells us that ```_dir``` is a directory. The following letters after indicate the permissions that are set to that file/directory. Like we saw earlier, I might not be able to open a given file, or I might no be able to cd into a given directory and this is all dictated by the permissions on that particular file or directory. **They way we read these is that the first group of three are the permissions set for the owner ```ownr``` of the file/directory ```_dir_```. The second group of three characters sets the permissions for the group ```grp``` that owns this file/directory, and the final group of three is the permissions for everyone else, so anyone that is not a user owner or a group owner, and if there is a dash it means you do not have that permission.** 
* Another handy command is move ```$ mv```.
* Another handy command is copy ```$ cp```.
* Another handy command is remove ```$ rm```. By default in Linux, remove is not a recursive directory, so if you want to remove a folder and all files in it, you have to use ```$ rm -r folder```.
* If you ever want more information about a program’s arguments, inputs, outputs, or how it works in general, give the ```man``` program a try. It takes as an argument the name of a program, and shows you its manual page. Press ```q``` to exit: ```missing:~$ man ls```

---

### Streams in shell
